---
published: false
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.1 released"
---
The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
availability of **Calamares 3.2.2**, the second update in
the features-and-functionality series of Calamares 3.2.x.
Changes in this release require distributions to **carefully review**
the configuration files and settings for Calamares.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

Changes in this release:
 * Contributions from the following people (alphabetically by first name):
   - artoo@cromnix.org
   - Caio Carvalho
 * Example configurations are **no longer installed** by default.
   The default setting for *INSTALL_CONFIG* has changed. Distributions
   are strongly encouraged to write their own configuration files and
   not rely on the example configuration files. Example configurations
   may change unpredictably.
 * It is now possible to express module dependencies through the
   *requiredModules* key in `module.desc`. All of the required modules
   for a given module must occur in the sequence **before** the module
   requiring them. None of the core modules use this facility.
 * A new module has been added to the core which can configure openrc
   services. To make services configuration consistent:
   - The *services* module has been **renamed** *services-systemd*,
   - The openrc module is named *services-openrc*,
   - At CMake time, it is possible to select all of the services modules,
     or one specific one, by setting the *USE_services* CMake variable.
     By default, all of the modules are built and installed.
 * The systemd services module can now disable targets and mask both
   targets and services (which will allow you to break the system with
   a bad configuration). The configuration is a little more flexible
   because a service (or target) name can be used on its own with
   sensible defaults.
   
If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository. Work towards the [next release][3] continues.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.2
[3]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/46
