---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.28 released"
---

After a bit of a hiccup in shoprt-cycle-land, the [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is pleased to announce the
immediate availability of **Calamares 3.2.28**, a small features release.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - apt-ghetto
 - Victor Ibragimov

## Core ##
 - A new object *Network* is available to QML modules in `io.calamares.core`.
   It exposes network status through the *hasInternet* property.
 - Welcome to Tajik translations. The Tajik language has quickly reached
   100% completion. Thanks Victor!
 - Welcome to [Interlingue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interlingue).
   The translation is at an early stage. Qt does not support language
   code *ie* though, so it may take some time to be integrated (much
   like Esperanto wasn't supported until Qt 5.12).

## Modules ##
 - The *locale* module has been completely redone on the inside.
   Users should see no changes. #1391
 - The *localeq* module uses the redone internals of the locale module.
   It can now be used to set timezone, language and locale information
   and is a suitable alternative module. Thanks to Anke Boersma who did
   the work of figuring out maps. Note that the map uses several GeoIP
   and GeoData providers and you may need to configure the URLs
   with suitable usernames for those services. #1426
 - Both *locale* and *localeq* can now be configured to use the system's
   timezone setting -- this can be useful to avoid both hard-coding an
   initial zone and doing extra GeoIP lookups, in the case where the
   live system already does so. #1391
 - The *locale* and *localeq* modules have additional machinery for
   timezone lookups; please report cases where clicking on the map
   returns an obviously bogus timezone (up until this release, for
   instance, Cape Town).
 - The *users* module no longer accepts `root` as a username. #1462
 - The *keyboardq* module is now more inline with the look of the rest
   of the Calamares modules, use of a background image is removed.
 - The *grubcfg* module now understands `/etc/default/grub.d`. #1457

## GPG Signatures ##

This release has **one** GPG signatures attached on the GitHub releases
page. This uses the new signing key, valid until 2022 and introduced for Calamares 3.2.27.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.28
