---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.29 released"
---

In some ways, you could call this 3.2.28.4, except there's some important new functionality regarding progress reporting. 
One regression in user-group settings has been fixed (thanks to Asif for reporting it).
We're now at
**Calamares 3.2.29**. This is a somewhat regular features-and-fixes release in the
Calamares 3.2 series.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Asif Mahmud Shimon (new contributor! hi!)

## Core ##
 - Edge case in extracting string-lists from YAML, reported and fixed
   by Asif (#1491).
 - Progress reporting is now more flexible. Modules can have a weight
   assigned to them in the descriptor; module instances can have a weight
   assigned which overrides the module descriptor. When jobs are run
   for a module instance, the jobs report progress pro-rated by the
   module's weight. Or in other words, it is now possible to tweak
   the amount of the overall progress bar that different modules fill.
   The default settings give unpackfs a weight of 12. (#1176)
 - The debug window currently does not show the right job queue.
   This will be fixed in an upcoming release.
   
## Modules ##
 - The *users* module did not read the *defaultGroups* correctly.
   Fixed by the string-lists change mentioned above.


## GPG Signatures ##

This release has **one** GPG signatures attached on the GitHub releases
page. This uses the new signing key, valid until 2022 and introduced for Calamares 3.2.27.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.29
