---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.30 released"
---

Just before KDE's Akademy conference, a new Calamares release.
Do not expect much Calamares work during the conference.
This is a regular short-cycle release with bugfixes, some new features,
and translation updates in the Calamares 3.2 series.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Asif Mahmud Shimon
 - Manzoor Ahmed Munawar
 - Sai Kamal
 - Victor Ibragimov

This release has two giant source-code changes that have no effect
on functionality, but do touch each and every source file:
 - SPDX headers for licensing information, following the standard
   set by REUSE.software ; all source files and resources have
   SPDX-License-Identifier information and copyright notices. All
   of the boilerplate texts have been removed.
 - Calamares coding style has been mechanically applied to the entire
   codebase. This was already done to most of it, but there were
   some hold-outs.

## Core ##
 - Network access status is deprecated in Qt 5.15's QNetworkAccessManager,
   and was not useful already in some previous versions. Replace its
   use in the Calamares network service by testing-it-ourself directly
   via a synchronous ping. (Thanks to Asif)
 - New Telugu translation. (Thanks to Sai)
 - Urdu translation started. (Thanks to Manzoor)
 - Timezones translated in Tajik and Russian. (Thanks to Victor)

## Modules ##
 - *keyboardq* and *localeq* improvements. (Thanks to Anke)
 - *users* module did not set up autologin properly. This is yet another
   regression left over from 3.2.28. (Reported by Phil and pcrepix, #1498)
 - *welcome* module now sets the *LANG* key in the locale configuration
   (which is shared with the *locale* module and consumed by the
   *localecfg* module). This makes it feasible to drop the *locale*
   module and still set the installed system's language to the language
   selected in Calamares. (Reported by FerenOS)



## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.30
