---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.34 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is a quite-short-cycle release in the 3.2 series.
There are translation updates, a fix for regressions in the
*keyboard* and *plasmalnf* modules, and new login-name transliteration.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Artem Grinev
 - Gaël PORTAY

## Core ##
 - No core changes

## Modules ##
 - The *keyboard* module had a regression in which it no-longer painted
   the keycaps in the keyboard preview. (reported by Vinnie)
 - The *plasmalnf* module did not set all of the look-and-feel values
   in the target system. (reported by Bluestar Linux)
 - In the *users* module, warnings about the strength of the password
   are now correctly pluralized when possible.
 - In the *users* module, if ICU is installed, the user's full name is
   automatically transliterated to US-ASCII (for some locales; this will
   need tweaking) so that the login name is acceptable. (Thanks Artem)

   
   
## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.34
