---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.33 released"
---

This is a regular short-cycle release in the 3.2 series.
Translations for keyboards and timezones have been improved, partition flags
are preserved in the edit dialog (this is a long-standing problem with manual
partitioning that was finally tracked down thanks to reports from IRC
user Vinnie), and a variety of internal fixes and refactorings.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Andrius Štikonas
 - Artem Grinev
 - Gaël PORTAY
 - Matti Hyttinen
 - TTran Me

## Core ##
 - Calamares now sets the C++ standard for compilation to C++17; this
   is for better compatibility and fewer warnings when building with
   modern KDE Frameworks and KPMcore 4.2.0.
 - Vietnamese translations have been added. Welcome! (Thanks TTran)

## Modules ##
 - The *initcpiocfg* module should support plymouth with encryption
   now. (Thanks Matti)
 - The *keyboard* and *keyboardq* modules now share backend code
   and handle non-ASCII layouts better (for setting passwords
   and usernames). (Thanks Artem)
 - Various cleanups and documentation improvements in the *partition*
   module, and configurable GPT name for swap. (Thanks Gaël)
 - A long-standing bug related to GPT partition flags in the
   *partition* module has been resolved. #1327 #1267
 - The *users* module now has a more detailed way to specify
   user groups -- which may be system groups rather than user-GIDs.
   A new option in each group can require that the group already
   exists in the target system, allowing for better consistency checks
   with the squashfs. #1523




## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.33
