---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.27 released"
---

The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is pleased to announce the
immediate availability of **Calamares 3.2.27**, a small features and UI-improvements release.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Gaël PORTAY
 - Vitor Lopes (new! welcome!)

## Core ##
 - QML modules with no surrounding navigation -- this is basically a
   special case for full-screen Calamares -- now have margins suitable
   for full-screen use.
 - PythonQt modules are increasingly on the way out.

## Modules ##
 - The Manjaro package manager *pamac* has been added to those supported by
   the *packages* module.
 - The *netinstall* module has had some minor UI tweaks.
 - Partitioning now tries harder to avoid floppy drives.

## GPG Signatures ##

This release has **two** GPG signatures attached on the GitHub releases
page. This is because the signing key has changed several times
recently. A new signing key, valid until 2022, has been generated, and this 
release has signatures from the existing, still-valid key and the longer-term key.

This is the older key. It was also used to sign 3.2.26.1:

```
gpg: Signature made za 11 jul 2020 16:49:59 CEST
gpg:                using RSA key 57E14BD1CD6C198BC11BF18D61A7D26277E4D0DB
gpg: Good signature from "Adriaan de Groot <groot@kde.org>" [ultimate]
gpg:                 aka "Adriaan de Groot <adriaan@bionicmutton.org>" [ultimate]
gpg:                 aka "Adriaan de Groot <adridg@freebsd.org>" [ultimate]
Primary key fingerprint: 00AC D15E 25A7 9FEE 028B  0EE5 7FEA 3DA6 169C 77D6
     Subkey fingerprint: 57E1 4BD1 CD6C 198B C11B  F18D 61A7 D262 77E4 D0DB
```

This is the newer key:

```
gpg: Signature made za 11 jul 2020 16:50:27 CEST
gpg:                using RSA key 86B8EDB6ED8E3F96A9BAECB5CFDDC96F12B1915C
gpg: Good signature from "Adriaan de Groot <groot@kde.org>" [ultimate]
gpg:                 aka "Adriaan de Groot <adriaan@bionicmutton.org>" [ultimate]
gpg:                 aka "Adriaan de Groot <adridg@freebsd.org>" [ultimate]
Primary key fingerprint: 00AC D15E 25A7 9FEE 028B  0EE5 7FEA 3DA6 169C 77D6
     Subkey fingerprint: 86B8 EDB6 ED8E 3F96 A9BA  ECB5 CFDD C96F 12B1 915C
```

The GPG public keys can be obtained from GitHub, from the Calamares site and
the personal site of the Calamares maintainer.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.27
