---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.31 released"
---

It took some time, with post-Akademy slowness and distractions,
but Calamares 3.2.31 is here.
This is a medium-cycle release with bugfixes, some new features,
and translation updates in the Calamares 3.2 series.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

> Note that this was initially released from git revision
> 40aa0fcaba, and then re-tagged and re-rolled from one
> revision later, 9ce08beead. The first release would not
> build with KPMcore4; there are no other changes.

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Corentin Noël
 - kadler15 (new contributor! hi!)

## Core ##
 - At the start of the *exec* phase, an overview is given of the
   various job weights, which allows you to tweak the overall
   progress reporting during the installation.
 - Problems with running Calamares on a 1-core single CPU have been resolved.

## Modules ##
 - The *keyboard* module now recognizes Turkish "F" layout and
   will set the vconsole keyboard layout correctly even if xkb
   keymaps are not found.
 - The *machineid* module, which generates UUIDs for systemd and dbus
   and can generate entropy files (filled from `/dev/urandom` in the host
   system) now supports more than one entropy file; generate them as needed
   (or copy a fixed value to all, depending on *entropy-copy*). Deprecate
   *entropy* (which generates a specific output file) as too inflexible.
 - In the *partition* module, swap can now be chosen as *file*, which is
   **not** create a swap partition, but write a `/swapfile` in the root
   directory, 512MiB large, and set that as swap. There is as yet no
   "smarts" about the size of the swap file.
 - Multiple problems in the *partition* module around partition
   sizing have been resolved by Corentin Noël.
 - The *preservefiles* module documentation did not match the functionality,
   and when used, didn't work right. #1521 (thanks kadler15)
 - Progress reporting from the *unpackfs* module has been revamped:
   it reports more often now, so that it is more obvious that files
   are being transferred even when the percentage progress does not
   change.
 - The *unpackfs* module now supports a *weight* setting for each
   of the unpack entries. For a single entry this does not matter,
   but if there are multiple entries it allows tweaking the relative
   progress between each entry.



## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.31
