---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.26 released"
---

The [Calamares team](https://calamares.io/team/) is happy to announce the
immediate availability of **Calamares 3.2.26**, a bugfixes-and-features release.
This is a tidy short-cycle release, with major features landing in the *tracking* module.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->
This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Gaël PORTAY
 - Pablo Ovelleiro Corral (new contributor, welcome!)
 - Philip Müller

## Core ##
 - The default branch for Calamares source repositories (calamares
   and calamares-extensions) is now *calamares*.
 - External modules can now be built again, outside of the Calamares
   source and build-tree.
 - The repository *calamares-tools* has been removed. The idea behind
   the tooling was to provide schema validation for Calamares configuration
   files. This has been merged into the primary repository, where it
   is now part of the test suite.

## Modules ##
 - *locale* put some more places into the correct timezone **visually**;
   for instance Norfolk Island gave up UTC+11.5 in 2015 and is now
   UTC+11, but Calamares still showed it in a zone separate from UTC+11.
 - *localeq* can now properly switch between on & offline mode,
   it detects internet status through js.
 - *packages* gained support for the Void Linux package manager,
   *xbps*. (thanks Pablo)
 - *tracking* now supports kuserfeedback configuration.
 - *welcomeq* added the GEOIP configuration option, so locale can be
   initially set according to IP address.

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.26
