---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.32 released"
---

This is a quick short-cycle release in the 3.2 series.
The new swapfile support was causing occasional problems
on ArcoLinux, and this has been resolved by being smarter
about creating the swapfile. There is a handful of
bugfixes and some improved error-reporting.
Also, a new translation to Friulian has appeared. Benvignûts!
Some features originally planned for 3.2.32 have been bumped to the next
short-cycle release, expected in a week or two.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Fabian Tomat
 - Gaël PORTAY

## Core ##
 - When doing GeoIP lookups, Calamares pretends to be Firefox.
   This resolves an issue where the GeoIP provider was refusing
   QNAM connections with the default User-Agent.
 - New translation available, Friulian. Welcome!

## Modules ##
 - The *netinstall* module has some tricky configuration files;
   it now complains about more cases of bad syntax or poor structure.
 - The *partition* module can now be constrained to work only with
   a particular kind of partition table. (thanks Gaël)
 - The *partition* module is a little more resilient to variations
   in btrfs notation from os-prober.
 - The *shellprocess* module now supports having a different progress
   message (other than "Shell Processes Job") through the config file.



## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.32
