---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.35 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is a regular short-cycle release in the 3.2 series.
There is now preliminary support for "split" encryption,
where the boot partition is not encrypted, but the
rest of the system is encrypted.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Clarissa Borges
 - Matti Hyttinen

A new kind of issue template has been added for Calamares,
for reporting (and adding tests for) usability issues. Thanks
to Clarissa for leading that effort.

## Core ##
 - No core changes yet

## Modules ##
 - The *partition* module now supports a not-full-disk-encryption setup,
   where `/boot` is not encrypted, but the rest of the system is.
 - The *plasmalnf* module has been substantially rewritten, so that it
   can support a QML version of the module in future. The UI has changed
   a little, and now displays more themes than before.
   
   
## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.35
