---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.49 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is an extra-short-cycle release, with new bugfixes for btrfs 
across multiple modules, as well as minor bugfixes elsewhere.
There is one important deprecation.
Distributions are **specifically** reminded to update the *umount* module
configuration (and to use *preservefiles* if needed).

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Artem Grinev
 - Evan James


## Core ##
 - Errors (e.g. when an installation fails for whatever reason) are displayed
   in a dialog with a scrollable details panel, rather than growing up
   to the size of the screen. (Thanks Artem)

## Modules ##
 - *bootloader* better supports multiple installations of the same OS.
 - *mount* supports btrfs subvolumes on subdirectories of / now.
 - *partition* now supports "deep" btrfs subvolume names, e.g. a
   separate subvolume for `/usr/local`. (Thanks Evan)
 - The *umount* module now warns if the "preserve log file" feature is used.
   This has been deprecated for a long time: use the *preservefiles* module
   instead. A future release will turn this into an error.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
