---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.44 (and .1) released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

After just a week, a short-cycle release with some fixes that are
important for certain distributions, and have no effect on others.
And then, after a few hours, a hot-fix release for a typo
introduced as "internal code fix". So enjoy Calamares 3.2.44.1.
We'll be looking into integrating better tools to avoid typo's
in Python modules in upcoming releases.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Shrinivas Vishnu Kumbhar (new contributor, welcome!)
 - whorfin (new contributor, welcome!)

## Core ##
 - "Log spam" has been reduced a little in the partitioning module.

## Modules ##
 - *initcpiocfg* has had a number of internal code-fixes, and now adds
   the `consolefont` hook by default as well. (Thanks Shrinivas)
 - Both *locale* and *keyboard* have received some tweaks for configurations
   in India; unless the user selects otherwise, English is preferred.
 - The *luksbootkeyfile* module was reported to be too quick to declare
   a timeout when applying the keyfile. The timeout has been increased
   to one minute. (Thanks whorfin)
 - *networkcfg* tries harder to find the live-user login for re-working
   networking settings. This fixes a regression on FerenOS, where the
   installer was crashing because it could not find the live-user login.

## Feedback ##

> Note that we are still using the milestone called *v3.2.41*,
> even though that release happened some time ago. The way we use
> milestones is currently not all-that-useful.

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
