---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.47 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is a regular short-cycle release, with new features in the *partition*
modules and some bug-fixes elsewhere.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Evan James
 - Jonas Strassel

## Core ##
 - The translation for Sinhala (`si`) has reached 100%. Thank you to
   හෙළබස and Sandaruwan, translators for Sinhala, for special effort
   in completing that translation.
 - Logging now supports Redacted names. This reduces the scope for
   leaking names or other private information through the logs
   (if they are posted to a pastebin). A name is redacted consistently
   within one run of Calamares, but differently each time.

## Modules ##
 - *bootloader* with systemd-boot now handles root subvolumes better
   (Thanks Evan)
 - *displaymanager* supports the *greetd* display manager, which is a
   kind of meta-DM itself, supporting multiple greeters. (Thanks Jonas)
 - *finishedq* now has an extra example QML file that builds the UI in
   a different fashion, demonstrating how a mobile-OS customization of
   Calamares would present the "all done" message.
 - *fstab* has an example configuration file that mentioned `space_cache`
   as an option. Since 2014 there was only one possible value, so this
   option matched the default-and-only value. Newer kernels with newer
   btrfs versions have a `v2` option value as well. Remove the example
   option, since the kernel automatically picks the right value, while
   setting it to the wrong one may prevent the system from booting.
   (Thanks Evan)
 - The *partition* module no longer logs recognizable disk names or
   UUIDs. These are redacted in the logs. #1593
 - The *partition* module, together with the new *zfs* module and changes
   in *mount* and *bootloader* can install to ZFS **if** the distribution
   kernel supports it. ZFS tools are required, as well as the relevant
   kernel modules. See the `README.md` in the *zfs* module. (Thanks Evan)


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
