---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.40 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

If it doesn't rain, things dry up. Calamares 3.2.40 took
too long to get out the door, largely a consequence of
having a number of big-ticket things on the milestone
along with lots of little fiddly bits.

As a 3-months-long-release, this one has many more changes
than the short-cycle releases from earlier in the 3.2 series.
We expect to return to short-cycle -- simply because that
works better. We have several new contributors who helped
to improve Calamares.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Anubhav Choudhary (SoK success!)
 - Emmanuel Arias (new contributor! welcome!)
 - Erik Dubois
 - Jerrod Frost (new contributor! welcome!)
 - Jia Chao (new contributor! welcome!)
 - Joe Kamprad
 - Lisa Vitolo (blast from the past!)
 - Omer I.S. (new contributor! welcome!)

In project news, chat (instant-messaging) communications has largely
moved to Matrix and Libera.Chat. CI notifications -- issues and build
results -- are sent to Matrix only.

## Core ##
 - The CMake modules for consumption by external modules (e.g. the
   calamares-extensions repository, but also any other modules built
   by distro's for internal use) now support consistent skip-module
   behavior and reporting. #1641 (one tiny part of this change)
 - In global storage, the *filesystem_use* key now has an API in
   libcalamares to systematically mark filesystem (types) as "in use"
   or not. This, in turn, means that modules can depend on that information
   for other work (e.g. removing drivers for unused filesystems). #1635
 - The "upload log file" now has a configurable log-file-size. (Thanks Anubhav)

## Modules ##
 - *bootloader* can now install an aarch64 (ARM) compatible EFI GRUB. (Thanks Jia)
 - *displaymanager* example configuration has been shuffled around a bit,
   for better results when the live image is running XFCE. Also lists
   more potential display managers. #1205 (Thanks Erik)
 - *keyboard* now switches on an alternate `en_US` keyboard layout when
   Arabic or Hebrew is selected as primary layout. (Thanks Omer)
 - *localeq* now has a fully functional offline option (alongside the default
   interactive map option, which requires internet).
 - The *netinstall* module can now fall back to alternative URLs when
   loading groups data. The first URL to yield a non-empty groups
   collection is accepted. No changes are needed in the configuration. #1673
 - *packagechooser* can now integrate with the *packages* module; that
   means you can specify package names to install for a given selection,
   and the regular package-installation mechanism will take care of it.
   Legacy configurations that use *contextualprocess* are still supported.
   See the `packagechooser.conf` file for details. #1550
 - A long-neglected pull request from Lisa Vitolo for the *partition*
   module -- allowing to set filesystem labels during manual partitioning --
   has been revived and merged.
 - The *partition* manager has had a long-standing bug with partition-flags
   and manual partitioning resolved. This may help resolve some installation
   issues on UEFI systems. #1724
 - *usersq* is further implemented and can now be used for a successful install.
   Not all warning messages available in the regular users module are implemented.
