---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.36 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

First release of the year! This is more to get the ball rolling again, than 
for any special-new-features. There is some prep-work that has landed, that 
will see interesting results only much later.
This release sees the first bits of work from KDE Season of KDE students
land in an official release, congratulations!

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anubhav Choudhary
 - benne-dee
 - Gaël PORTAY
 - Jonas Strassel
 - Kevin Kofler
 - Matti Hyttinen
 - Neal Gompa

## Core ##
 - It is now possible to hide the *next* and *back* buttons during
   the "exec" phase of installation. Thanks Anubhav.
 - The Calamares CI has migrated to GitHub actions. Thanks Jonas.

## Modules ##
 - *bootloader* now uses the current file names for the UEFI Secure Boot
   shim instead of obsolete ones.
 - The *mount* module creates swap in its own subvolume, if btrfs is used.
   Thanks Matti.
 - *partition* includes more information about what it will do, including
   GPT partition types (in human-readable format, if possible). Thanks Gaël.
 - Some edge-cases with overlay filesystems have been resolved in the
   *partition* module. Thanks Gaël.
 - During the creation of filesystems and partitions, automounting is
   turned off (if DBus is available, and the host system supports
   KDE Solid automount control). This should reduce the number of
   failed installations if automount grabs partitions while they are
   being created. The code is prepared to handle other ways to control
   automount-behavior as well.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.36
