---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.45 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

It's a *spooooky* release of Calamares. After a tumultuous month,
development is resuming, new contributors are welcome, and there's a
new release with some bugfixes and new features.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Evan James (new contributor, welcome!)

## Project ##

 - Hacktoberfest happened, but saw 0 (zero) contributions explicitly targeted
   towards the event. I did one PR-and-merge to see if it would work at all, and it did.
 - The `CHANGES` has been renamed to `CHANGES-3.2` (in the *calamares* development branch)
   and `CHANGES-3.3` (in the *work-3.3* branch), to separate histories better.

## Core ##
 - New internal convenience functions from Evan

## Modules ##
 - *packagechooser* now displays screenshots nicely-scaled
   rather than jagged. (#1807)
 - *partition* module removes ZFS partitions directly. At install-time,
   we think that the partitions should be handled separately from a
   zpool that potentially includes those partitions. (Thanks Evan)
 - *services-systemd* supports timers, e.g. for weekly trim on SSDs.
   (Thanks Evan)

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository (note that the milestone is more of a "millstone",
collecting issues across many releases right now).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
