---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.39 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Still chipping away at the 3.2.37 milestone, and adding some other features,
and tidying up module internals and improving the QML-UI side of things,
here's another quick-release of Calamares. Note that *btrfs* support
is relatively new and has a number of open issues with it.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Matti Hyttinen

## Core ##
 - A *packages* service has been added to the core, for use by
   *netinstall* module and any others that need to set up
   package information for the *packages* module.

## Modules ##
 - The *mount* module has gained a configurable setup for btrfs volumes.
   If your distro has a default-to-btrfs setup, it can skip the hard-
   coded setup (which Calamares has had for a long time with @home
   and similar) and introduce a custom btrfs configuration through the
   `mount.conf` file. See issues #1659 and #1661 for warnings about
   using this in production.
 - *netinstall* now supports fallbacks for the groups data.
   Instead of a single URL, multiple URLs may be specified in
   a list and Calamares goes through them until one is successfully
   retrieved. Older configurations with a single string are
   treated like a one-item list. #1579
 - The *usersq* module now connects to the internal configuration
   object and may be usable for regular installations.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.37
