---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares CI Extended"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

The CI (Continuous Integration, but also nightly builds) for Calamares has 
migrated to GitHub actions. This has now been extended also to
the [calamares-extensions](https://github.com/calamares/calamares-extensions) repository.

<!--more-->

All the CI actions for Calamares itself can be found
[here on GitHub](https://github.com/calamares/calamares/actions).
There is one build that runs in response to a push, and three
that run nightly on "likely" platforms for Calamares (although Manjaro is missing).
The *nightly-neon* build produces a tarball of the installed Calamares (this
tarball isn't used by anything except the CI system itself).

> KDE neon (and Debian, and Manjaro, and openSUSE) all have their own
> regular builds of their software; those packaging builds are
> independent of the Calamares CI.

What's new this week is that [calamares-extensions](https://github.com/calamares/calamares-extensions) 
**also** has CI now.
Calamares-extensions is a second repository with examples of branding,
examples of modules, specialised and bespoke modules.
It is an illustration of how second- or third-parties can build
modules: Calamares provides infrastructure
for building modules, which can be used independently.

The calamares-extensions CI needs an installed Calamares in order to function:
that infrastructure has to be available to do the build.
Rather than build everything **again** (which takes about 15 minutes),
the extensions repository picks up the results of the most recent
nightly build of Calamares. Those results are tarred up (by *nightly-neon*)
and extracted and re-used in the other CI.

Calamares-extensions also has a nightly build; all the CI actions for
Calamares-extensions can be found
[on its workflow page](https://github.com/calamares/calamares-extensions/actions).
There is a *nightly-neon-xtn* here as well, so that there is
a nightly combined build of Calamares and its extensions -- all reported on
IRC through the notifications-bot.

That keeps us ready if some part of the system falls apart or if incompatibilities
sneak in.
