---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.41 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Returning to short-cycle releases, the Calamares team is happy to
release Calamares 3.2.41. The "things that fit" into this release
do not cover all of the items on the milestone, which will remain
open for a few more releases until all the milestone issues are
resolved.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Camilo Higuita

## Core ##
 - The (re)translation framework has been internally re-vamped to be
   less resource-intensive and to work with all QObjects, not just
   widgets. Consumers of the translations framework are expected to
   set up the event filter on the top-level widget(s) manually. Since
   Calamares and the Calamares-test-applications have been adjusted already,
   no further action is needed.

## Modules ##
 - When the *keyboard* module is activated, it no longer replaces
   an explicit user choice (e.g. for a Belgian layout) by a guessed-for-
   this-language layout (e.g. Danish if you're installing in Danish).
 - Logic for handling installation lists has been moved around in the
   *packages* module so that package managers can, in principle,
   adjust how to handle critical and non-critical package lists.
 - In the *partition* module, translation code has been simplified.
 - The *usersq* module has had a fair bit of QML rewritten to make it easier
   to customize the colors used by the module in a consistent way.
   (Thanks Anke)
 - *Welcome* now uses a translated message from the Config object,
   increasing the sharing between widgets- and QML-modules.
