---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.42 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

After a summer break, we return to short-cycle releases
where the Calamares team does a release roughly every two weeks
with the bugfixes and improvements from that time.
The Calamares team is happy to
release Calamares 3.2.42. The milestone remains open,
but this release has bugfixes for keyboard and partitioning
and new features in the welcome, summary and packagechooser modules,
as well as other areas.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Artem Grinev
 - Nico 'dr460nf1r3' (new contributor, welcome!)
 - Waneon Kim (new contributor, welcome!)

## Core ##
 - No core changes yet

## Modules ##
 - BTRFS partitions are no longer listed as "check in phase 2" in
   the *fstab* module. (Thanks Nico)
 - The *keyboard* module (and *keyboardq*) now pick an English layout
   (with Rupee) for keyboards when the language is English and locale is India,
   rather than Hindi layout.
 - The *localeq* module had the i18n.qml rewritten to make it easier
   to customize. A bug in the layout has been fixed, and the overall
   look has been updated.
 - *networkcfg* now translates the "live user" on an ISO to the regular
   user on the installed system, so that network configuration changes
   made in the live system are automatically used after installation. #1755
 - *partition* no longer allows you to delete an extended partition with
   children (which led to crashes). #1749 (Thanks Artem)
 - *partition* complains in more detail about the state of the UEFI
   boot partition (under manual partitioning schemes). #1761
 - *welcome* can now check multiple URLs to determine if internet connectivity
   is available. It is still recommended to check the distro home-page or
   some special "ping" page of the distro, although that has some privacy
   implications; using example.com or google.com may work as well. Listing
   multiple URLs will ping each of them in turn until one succeeds. #1669
 - The work to make a QML version available for all view modules is almost
   completed. Two new QML modules have been added *packagechooserq* and *summaryq*.
   Summaryq brings the option to present the summary page in a customizable
   way, with a bit more of a contemporary look. Packagechooserq adds the option
   to preselect an item and displays all options in one overview.
   (Thanks Anke)

   
## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
