---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.48 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is a regular short-cycle release, with new features for btrfs and in the *packages* module.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Evan James

## Core ##
 - Python modules now have `warn()` and `error()` methods they can call,
   alongside the existing `debug()` and `warning()` (all live in the
   *libcalamares.utils* module).
 - Python modules can load YAML files via `libcalamares.utils.load_yaml()`.
   This may be the most useful for test-scripts.

## Modules ##
 - *fstab* now has a separate, special, flags-setting for swap subvolumes
   on btrfs. A swap subvolume is created if a swap **file** (not a separate
   partition) is selected in the auto-partitioning page. (Thanks Evan)
 - When using btrfs, the *mount* module creates subvolumes. It was not
   possible to **avoid** having a subvolume name created for the root.
   This is now possible. #1837
 - The *packages* module now has some special settings for the `pacman`
   package manager (generally used on Arch-derivatives). This allows
   tweaking of the installation process, if downloads are slow or
   packages may fail to install. See the `packages.conf` file for
   details. (Thanks Evan)


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
