---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.38 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

On 3.14 (according to some date-notation schemes; Calamares does let
you pick whichever one you like) there is Calamares 3.2.38.
There are new modules, module improvements, and some under-the-hood
fixes. The milestone for 3.2.37 still isn't empty, so we will keep
using that until it's done.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Anubhav Choudhary
 - Neal Gompa

## Core ##
 - Uploading your log files (in case of installation failure) has been
   expanded and is now more configurable. Users should still take care
   when uploading logs, and distro's should configure a URL with
   no public viewing of those logs. (Thanks Anubhav)
 - The .desktop file for Calamares now makes a longer trip, calling
   `sh -c "pkexec calamares"`; distributions may still need to adjust.

## Modules ##
 - A new QML-based *finishedq* module has been added. (Thanks Anke)
 - The *packages* module no longer supports *urpmi*; no Calamares-
   consumers with that package manager seem to exist. (Thanks Neal)
 - The *users* module now can set a fixed username and prevent editing.
   The *presets* configuration entry in `users.conf` can set a *loginName*
   and a *fullName* and (independently) enable or disable editing of
   that value. You can, for instance, set *loginName* to "manjaro" if
   you like; the user can change it afterwards. You could set the
   *loginName* to "oem" and prevent editing it as well. #942

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.37
