---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.37 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Apparently the ball is not very round this year, since this is the
second release that does not add a whole lot, but let's get it out
the door anyway. It is feature-light, although users in Belarus
and Greece may notice. It is so light, that for 3.2.38 we will just
reuse the current milestone.

Calamares is a distribution-independent system installer, with an advanced
partitioning feature for both manual and automated partitioning operations.
Calamares is designed to be customizable by distribution maintainers without
need for cumbersome patching, thanks to third party branding and external
modules support.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - benne-dee

## Core ##
 - Calamares has a table of 'best guess' languages for each country
   and when GeoIP is enabled, it will automatically select that
   country's language as default -- the user can of course pick
   a different one. The 'best guess' is based on Unicode / ISO
   data, which is sometimes dubious. Based on some personal notes,
   the 'best guess' language for Belarus has been changed to Russian.
 - Calamares has a table of 'best guess' keyboard mappings,
   allowing native language input. However, usernames and
   passwords should be in US-ASCII (this is a limitation of
   the login system -- **some** parts of the system will support
   non-ASCII input, but it's better safe than sorry).
   Add Greek to the list of languages that needs US-ASCII
   in addition to native input.
 - The CI infrastructure now builds Calamares and Calamares-extensions
   on a nightly basis.

## Modules ##
 - The *netinstall* module has a YAML schema, allowing packagers
   to validate and verify their netinstall configurations before
   shipping an ISO (or writing bug reports). Thanks benne-dee.
 - The *finished* module has been heavily refactored, opening
   the way to a QML-based version of the same module. This is
   also preparatory work for allowing packagers (e.g. PostmarketOS)
   to customize the messages on the finished page.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository.

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues?q=milestone%3Av3.2.37
