---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.46 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is a regular short-cycle release, with new features in the *packages* and *partition*
modules and some bug-fixes elsewhere.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Philip Müller

## Core ##
 - A new core class `Runner` is now responsible for running commands
   either in the host or in the target system. This is invisible for
   end-users, but **does** expand the API available to consumers inside
   Calamares modules. In particular, Python modules can now easily read
   and respond to command output. #1740

## Modules ##
 - *fstab* writes a slightly different message in `/etc/crypttab`
   about the root filesystem. Since Calamares itself ignores the
   (previous wording of) message, it was confusing. #1811
 - *packages* module has some support for reporting progress while
   the packages are installed. This depends on the package-manager itself
   reporting useful progress information **and** the *packages* module having
   support-code to interpret that progress. A proof-of-concept for `pacman`
   has been implemented. #1582
 - *partition* has a number of edge-cases for LVM and LUKS resolved. #1564 #1817
 - *partition* module once again always offers `/boot` as a mount-point, even
   when EFI would want `/boot/efi`. (Thanks Phil)
 - *summary* had a regression and showed some descriptive texts twice.

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, or
the full list of [issues closed][2] with this release, please see the
Calamares code repository (note that the milestone is more of a "millstone",
collecting issues across many releases right now).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
