---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.59 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is a regular short-cycle release.
There are a handful of bugfixes and one tiny little UI feature.
Calamares 3.2 development is now **bugfix only**.
The working branch *calamares* is now for version 3.3.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Arjen Balfoort

This is the final release of Calamares 3.2 where the release is from
the *calamares* branch -- that is, where the primary development
branch is also the branch being released regularly. Future releases
of the 3.2 series are bugfix-only, and no new feature development
or translations are expected. This is also the final release done
*as work-work* by the current maintainer.

## Core ##
 - Prep-work for moving the *About Calamares* button to the panels,
   rather than keeping it in the Welcome module. The about information
   is somewhat more flexible now, so that a new maintainer can be added
   easily without frustrating translators.
 - Translations for the (QML) slideshow were not being loaded correctly.
   The log is now somewhat more informative when that fails.

## Modules ##
 - *fstab* can now be configured to put `/tmp` on a *tmpfs*, and this can
   depend on it being on an SSD or not. Options applicable to `/tmp` can
   be configured separately as well. #1818 (Thanks Arjen)
 - *partition* now has some support for re-using LUKS partitions.
   (Thanks Arjen)
 - *partition* will cycle out a LUKS key if all the key slots are in use
   and a new key is added, rather than crashing the installer. (Thanks Arjen)


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
