---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.50 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is a regular short-cycle release, although the cycle is somewhat
stretched over the holidays. There are fixes in many different
modules.
There is one important deprecation.
Distributions are **specifically** reminded to update the *umount* module
configuration (and to use *preservefiles* if needed).

This release introduces a new signing sub-key, `328D742D8807A435`
used for release-tags and tarballs. The key is available though
the Calamares website, or the maintainer's websites, or GPG keyservers.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Erik Dubois
 - Evan James
 - Johannes Kamprad
 - Taejun Park (new contributor, welcome!)

**Replacement notice:** The *umount* module will be replaced by a C++
implementation in the next release. The "preserve log file" feature
will be removed in that release. Use the *preservefiles* module instead.

## Core ##
 - No core changes yet

## Modules ##
 - *initcpiocfg* mentioned a special kernel-name "all", which did not work,
   and a special kernel-name "$uname" which cannot work. Fixed the former
   and removed the "$uname" special key. (Thanks Evan)
 - *luksswaphookcfg* has been converted to a C++ module.
 - *networkcfg* could fail to update the NetworkManager configuration
   if the SSID or username contained non-ASCII characters **and** the
   default Python text-file encoding was set to ASCII. The files are
   now read and written in UTF-8, explicitly. #1848
 - *partition* always sets *bigtime* option on XFS filesystems, if possible.
   Requires sufficiently-recent xfsprogs. #1874
 - *preservefiles* was missing some necessary features, needed for it
   to replace the deprecated log-file-saving functionality in the *umount*
   module. (Thanks Erik and Joe for testing) #1851
 - *umount* is now marked as an emergency module in the example configuration,
   since it should **probably** be run as a cleanup. (Thanks Evan)
 - *welcome* and *locale* could be confusing, together, and configure
   the target system with a language that does not match the installer
   language, even though the user did not make any explicit choice.
   (Thanks Taejun) #1864

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
