---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.53 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is an extra-short-cycle release.
There are a handful of bugfixes. Some of the things-to-watch-for
from 3.2.52 have been fixed or temporarily disabled.


<!--more-->


This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Huang Jia Wen (new contributor! Welcome!)

## Core ##
 - Automount-manipulation (to switch off KDE Plasma automounting new devices)
   now logs slightly more as it works. Defaults have changed in KDE Plasma
   5.24 and it turns out the automount-manipulation does not work well.
   Distro's are encouraged to turn off automount in the live ISO (see #1885).

## Modules ##
 - *bootloader* now knows about loongarch64 and can install suitable EFI
   files for this CPU type. (Thanks Huang Jia Wen)
 - Progress reporting for `pacman` from the *packages* module has been switched
   off. The progress reporting works under low load, but there are many reports
   of it crashing (from XeroLinux and from Evan James, who has been debugging
   the issue) during a regular installation with thousands of updates. This
   will be revisited in the next release.
 - The *umount* module was buggy and did not actually unmount anything.




## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
