---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.58 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is a regular short-cycle release.
There are a handful of bugfixes and one tiny little UI feature.
**Note** that Calamares 3.2 development is winding down.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Anke Boersma
 - Arjen Balfoort
 - Enrique Medina Gremaldos
 - Evan James

## Core ##
 - Internal improvements to translations-setup means that Catalan (in the
   Valencian dialect), Occitan (Lenga d'Oc) and Serbian (in Latin script)
   are all better supported. Thanks Enrique.

## Modules ##
 - *netinstall* Now displays entries with an empty name slightly differently.
   An empty name is not generally useful, but in combination with
   *immutable:true* and *selected:false* can be used to introduce separators
   or descriptive comments into the list of packages.
 - *partition* does not offer full-disk encryption when using ZFS. ZFS and the
   way Calamares sets up FDE don't mix well. (Thanks Evan)
 - *partition* Various bugs related to LUKS have been fixed. (Thanks Arjen)
 - *users* module now has a structured *user* key with settings specific
   to the user (shell, in particular). This maintains backwards compatibility
   with the *userShell* key.
 - *users* module now has lists of forbidden login- and host-names, to
   avoid settings that will mess up the install (e.g. using a login-name
   that is one of the system's reserved names). #1944


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
