---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.61 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is the second community-maintainence release of Calamares 3.2.
It corrects a handful of bugs foud in the stable release. There
are also translation updates.

> Community releases happen when sufficient material accumulates to
> justify a release (e.g. bug-fixes). Pull-requests to the 3.2
> branch are still welcome. Keep additional stability requirements
> in mind, though: it is intended as an LTS branch now.

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Adriaan de Groot
 - Anke Boersma

## Core ##
 - The "About" and "Debug" buttons in a QWidgets-based panel were no
   longer translated. This has been fixed (by re-using translations
   of the same buttons from the QML module. #2030 (Thanks Anke)

## Modules ##
 - *bootloader* Python code slipped in that was incompatible with
   the minimum required Python version. #2033 (Thanks Adriaan)
 - *locale* fixes a large regression introduced with 3.2.60, where
   the location picked for many locales was not the same as in 3.2.59,
   and generally peculiar (e.g. picking "English" led to "en_AG" which
   is nice if you are in Bermuda, but not expected in the rest of the
   world). #2008
 - *luksopenswaphookcfg* Remove duplicate options. #1659 (Thanks Anke)


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
