---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.3.0-alpha2 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is the first **announced**, second actual, release of an alpha of Calamares 3.3.
Calamares 3.3 represents a break in continuity, changing configuration files,
promising stability for plugins, and modernising the requirements of Calamares.
The alpha releases are unstable, and distributions looking to try them will
need to check configuration compatibility closely. See the changelog for the 3.3
series for (some) details.

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Adriaan de Groot
 - Anke Boersma
 - Evan James
 - Shivanand
 - Vitor Lopes

## Core ##

A core **TODO** is moving all library code into the `Calamares` namespace,
dropping the `CalamaresUtils` namespace. Modern C++ supports nested namespaces,
so in some cases we can use those. This has a drastic effect on ABI compatibility,
though, as functions move from one namespace to another. This needs to be
completed before a 3.3.0 with ABI stability is released.

## Modules ##

Module schemas have been updated to reflect all the incompatible changes.

All instances of configurations where `@` or `@@` was used to indicate where
substitutions could take place, now use `${}` syntax. This has an effect on
*shellprocess*, branding configuration, *preservefiles*, and many other places.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/82
