---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.2.51 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is a regular short-cycle release.
There are new features in *netinstall* and *bootloader*.
There is one important replacement.
Distributions are **specifically** reminded to update the *umount* module
configuration (and to use *preservefiles* if needed).


<!--more-->


This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Evan James

**WARNING** The *umount* module has been rewritten in C++. Check your
configuration if you previously used the copy-a-log functionality.

## Core ##
 - Evan has made a start on documenting which Global Storage keys there
   are and how they tie modules together. This can be found in the
   `src/modules/README.md` documentation.

## Modules ##
 - *bootloader* can now be configured to try to generate a unique
   suffix for the bootloader-id. #1820
 - *grubcfg* now has a configurable default for kernel parameters,
   which allows distributions to change the value from `quiet`.
   The default, if nothing is set, remains `quiet`. Use an explicitly-
   empty list to specify no-arguments-at-all.
 - *packagechooser* can now export its choices for use by the *netinstall*
   module. This makes it possible to use *packagechooser* for large-scale
   choices, followed by *netinstall* for fine-grained control. (Thanks Evan)
 - When the *partition* module has a conflicting configuration for the
   swap choices, it prints a warning and uses the configured choice, rather
   than always using "suspend". #1881
 - The *umount* module has been re-written in C++. The copy-a-log-file
   functionality has been removed. Use the *preservefiles* module for that.

   
## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/81
