---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.3.0-alpha3 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This is the second **announced** release of an alpha of Calamares 3.3.
It comes after a long long year of slow-progress, although there are lots of
new contributors.

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Adriaan de Groot
 - Aleksey Samoilov
 - Anke Boersma
 - Arjen Balfoort
 - Boria138
 - Brian Morison
 - Emir Sari
 - Evan Goode
 - Evan James
 - Ficelloo
 - Hector Martin
 - Jeremy Attall
 - Johannes Kamprad
 - Kasta Hashemi
 - Kevin Kofler
 - Mario Haustein
 - Masato TOYOSHIMA
 - Panda
 - Paolo Dongilli
 - Peter Jung
 - Philip Müller
 - Shivanand
 - Sławomir Lach
 - Sunderland93
 - wiz64

## Core ##
 - Incompatible module-configuration changes, see #1438.
 - Branding entries use ${var} instead of @{var} for substitutions,
   in line with all the other substitution mechanisms used from C++
   core. See documentation in `branding.desc`.
 - Boost::Python requires at least version 1.72.
 - KDE Frameworks must be version 5.58 or later.
 - The `INSTALL_CONFIG` option has been removed. If you are installing
   the example configuration files from the Calamares repository, just
   stop. That was never a good idea, and you should keep your configs elsewhere.
 - Progress percentage during install can now be localized. (thanks Emir)

## Modules ##
 - *dracut* added a configurable kernel name. (thanks Anke)
 - *initcpiocfg* orders hookds slightly differently. (thanks Peter)
 - *localeq* moved to using Drawer instead of ComboBox in UI. (thanks Anke)
 - *keyboardq* moved to using Drawer instead of ComboBox in UI. (thanks Anke)
 - *netinstall* now has a new *noncheckable* option for groups, which prevent
   it a group from being checked/uncheckd as a whole. You can still check
   individual items **in** the group though. (thanks Shivanand)
 - *partition* can now pick LUKS or LUKS2. (thanks Jeremy)
 - *zfs* creates a hostid through zgenhostid.
 - *zfshostid* new module to copy zfs generated /etc/hostid

## TODO ##

In the interest of planning the next release, here are some
items that I think are required to get the 3.3.0 release
out the door:
 - Complete the namespace-conversion (drop namespace `CalamaresUtils`)
 - Drop Boost::Python and write the (very small) Python bindings by hand
 - Restore the installation of config files from the repo.
   This was removed for 3.3.0-alpha2 because forking the repo
   to modify the configuration is a terrible idea. But this also breaks
   patching-the-configurations at build- or packaging-time,
   which is a legitimate use-case.

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/82
