---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.3.0-alpha5 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

A month to the day, and we have reached the next -- and also last --
alpha release along the road to Calamares 3.3.
More internal changes to cross off items on the TODO list:
Boost can be replaced by pybind11 (and it is, by default)
to make the Python modules less dependent on external libraries.
We're happy to have contributors helping out with the
translation of Calamares into more languages than ever before.

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Adriaan de Groot
 - Alejo Fernandez
 - Anke Boersma
 - Christophe Marin
 - Emir Sari
 - Evan James
 - Gaël PORTAY
 - Gecko Linux
 - Jeremy Whiting
 - Neal Gompa

## Core ##
 - Boost::Python is no longer a dependency, Calamares uses a bundled copy
   of pybind11 instead. This speeds up compilation and reducese the
   dependency tree a great deal. You can set `WITH_PYBIND11=OFF` in the
   build to keep Boost::Python and all the binary-compatibility problems
   it entails.
 - Coding style now wants clang-format 15 or 16, but no longer needs astyle.
   There is also a clang-tidy file for additional styling support.
 - Ongoing translation improvements. (thanks Emir)
 - Translations for bqi (Luri), es_AR (Castellano), eo (Esperanto),
   ka (Georgian). In **non-release** builds (e.g. between releases,
   so for developers building directly from git) all translations are
   enabled, even the ones with no translations at all.
 - The logging format in the `session.log` file and on-screen is now
   more similar, although the file contains a lot more per-line information.
 - The INSTALL_CONFIG option has been restored. It is still a terrible
   idea to fork the repository to modify the config files, and you
   probably should have a calamares-config package with those files
   instead, there are packaging workflows that can usefully patch-and-
   install configuration files. The option defaults to OFF.

## Modules ##
 - All QML modules now have a Qt6-compatible set of QML files as well. (thanks Anke)
 - *packagechooser* supports AppStream 1.0 API.
 - *unpackfs* now uses the `-S` option to rsync for sparse file support. (thanks Jeremy)

## TODO ##

All of the TODOs which I had planned for a 3.3.0 release are now done.

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/82
