---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.3.0-alpha4 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Another alpha along the road to Calamares 3.3, this one
contains a huge amount of internal changes to cross off two
items on the TODO list: Qt6 compatibility and QML support,
and normalizing the C++ namespace used by Calamares.
We're happy to have contributors helping out with the
porting and with new features in Calamares modules.

For -alpha5 Anke has fixes to all the QML lined up,
Adriaan has Python bindings figured out, so expect that
one fairly quickly.

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Adriaan de Groot
 - Anke Boersma
 - Emir Sari
 - Evan James
 - Hector Martin
 - Ivan Borzenkov
 - Simon Quigley

## Core ##
 - Qt6 compatibility. You can choose Qt5 (with KDE Frameworks 5) as before,
   or choose Qt6 (with KDE Frameworks 6). This means that a Qt6-based Linux
   distribution can use Calamares without needing an extra version of Qt.
   Note that some KDE Frameworks are required as well, and those need to be
   Qt6-based also (and are not released as of September 2023).
 - QML-based modules are also supported in Qt6, but the QML is likely to
   be source-incompatible. The *welcomeq* module shipped with Calamares
   now has two `.qrc` files and uses the `${QT_VERSION_SUFFIX}` variable
   to pick one of the two depending on the Qt version being used.
   Other modules are likely to follow the same pattern.
 - C++ namespaces have been shuffled around and `CalamaresUtils` has been
   retired. This has an effect on all C++ plugins, since this is neither
   a binary- nor source-compatible change.

## Modules ##
 - *keyboard* module can now be explicitly configured to use X11 keyboard
   settings or the FreeDesktop locale1 DBus service. The latter is most
   useful for Calamares as an "initial setup" system, not an installer,
   in a Wayland session. (thanks Hector)
 - *keyboard* module now writes X11 layout configuration with variants
   for all non-ASCII (e.g. us) layouts. (thanks Ivan)
 - *keyboard* module now can configure keyboard switch. (thanks Ivan)

## TODO ##

In the interest of planning the next release, here are some
items that I think are required to get the 3.3.0 release
out the door:
 - Drop Boost::Python and write the (very small) Python bindings by hand
 - Restore the installation of config files from the repo.
   This was removed for 3.3.0-alpha2 because forking the repo
   to modify the configuration is a terrible idea. But this also breaks
   patching-the-configurations at build- or packaging-time,
   which is a legitimate use-case.

## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/82
