---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.3.4 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

In this release, process jobmodules -- a particular kind of module
recognizable by `type: job` and `interface: process` in the descriptor
file -- undergo a large change to resemble *shellprocess* more.

Users of process jobmodules are encouraged to double-check the Functionality
of those modules in this release.

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Adriaan de Groot
 - Victor Fuentes

## Core ##
 - Process jobs (a job type provided by Calamares core) now share more
   code with *contextualprocess* and *shellprocess* jobs. The execution
   mechanism is the same, and always invokes the shell, whether the command
   runs in the host or in the target system. It is no longer necessary to
   add `/bin/sh` in the *command* key -- this is always present.

## Modules ##
 - *contextualprocess* and *shellprocess* can now set environment variables
   as part of the configuration. See *shellprocess* documentation for details.
   This is optional, and does not do anything that could not already be done
   by putting `export VAR=value ;` in front of the command before.
 - *partition* fixed a bug with an uninitialized variable. (thanks Victor)
 - *shellprocess* (and therefore also *contextualprocess* and process
   jobmodules) now substitutes `${LANG}` in commands with the language
   selected in the user-interface of Calamares.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/83
