---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.3 series ABI compatibility"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

A long-standing wish of mine is to reach some kind of ABI stability
in the Calamares core. Over the lifetime of the 3.2 series,
methods were added and removed, namespaces shuffled around,
and data members littered all over. This has a major downside
for (third-party) C++ modules that need to be recompiled for
each Calamares release. The 3.3 series aims to improve the situation.

<!--more-->

## ABI Compatibility

For background on C++ ABI Compatibility, the
[KDE Community Wiki](https://community.kde.org/Policies/Binary_Compatibility_Issues_With_C%2B%2B)
provides a good overview.

Calamares modules, or plugins, are loaded into the Calamares executable.
The modules can use services provided by the executable (e.g. Global Storage).
Conversely, Calamares itself calls into the plugins to create the UI
for the module and run jobs. This means that plugins and Calamares must
agree on names, types, sizes and layout of data.

Calamares 3.2 series did not track o promise ABI compatibility at all.
Any third-party modules needed to be recompiled for each release.

Calamares 3.3 series tries, a little.

## ABI Checking

[libabigail](https://sourceware.org/libabigail/) is a suite of tools
for dealing with "ABI-relevant artifacts". It does all the heavy lifting that
Calamares needs.

In the Calamares repository, the script `ci/abicheck.sh` builds Calamares
libraries twice: once for a reference version, and once for the current
version. Then it compares the two with libabigail tools. This produces
a report of ABI-relevant changes. The idea is that the report should be
empty, meaning the two versions are ABI-compatible and modules compiled
against the reference version will still work with the current version.

The script defines a specific git hash as the reference version.
It corresponds (when I started writing this, but take note of the concluding paragraph) to release 3.3.0.

Right now the report is gigantic. There is a big ABI difference between
3.3.0 and the latest 3.3.4 release. There are no ABI compatibility guarantees
-- in fact I think it is guaranteed to break.

## ABI Intentions

One of the reasons for the ABI changes is the **visibility** of
symbols (methods, namespaces and data members) in the libraries.
Calamares in the 3.1 series used a collection of macros
in the header `DllMacro.h` to mark things as "public ABI".
In the 3.2 series, this mechanism was not used consistently
at all, and 3.3 started with a mess: everything was public,
and only some things marked-as-such.

> Note that all this ABI drift happened under my watch,
> so it is entirely my fault.

- In Calamares release 3.3.2, symbol-visibility in *libcalamares*
  was set to hidden-by-default with explicit use of the `DLLEXPORT`
  macro to mark things as part of the public ABI.
- In Calamares release 3.3.3, the same was done with *libcalamaresui*
  and the macro `UIDLLEXPORT`.
- In Calamares release 3.3.4, some loose ends for the previous two
  releases and the exposed ABI were tied up.
 
In **principle** this means that 3.3.4 "should" be the stable ABI we have always wanted.

## Conclusions

I'm waiting for fallout from **real** third-party plugins.
The *calamares-extensions* repository is one that
acts as an example of plugins (and branding and other things)
and it builds, but who knows what other people use.

Based on the assumption that 3.3.4 is stable, I will be
changing the reference release for ABI-checking to that, and then
introducing an ABI-compatibility check into the release
scripts so that barring unpleasant surprises,
we can guarantee forward-compatibility of the libraries
to third-party consumers.
